{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1344\cocoasubrtf720
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 A cat, a parrot, and a bag of seed.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 A man finds himself on a riverbank with a cat, a parrot and a bag of seed. He needs to transport all three to the other side of the river in his boat. However, the boat has room for only the man himself and one other item (either the cat, parrot or seed). In his absence, the cat could eat the parrot, and the parrot would eat the bag of seed. Show how he can get all the passengers to the other side, without leaving the wrong ones alone together.
\f0 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
1. The man needs to get a parrot, a cat, and a bag of seed across a river. He can not leave the parrot with the cat or the bird with the seed alone. The boat is only big enough to take one thing across at a time. \
\
2.The constraints of this problem are that he cannot leave the parrot and the cat alone, nor can he leave the seed and parrot alone. Also, he can only bring one of them across the river at a time. \
The sub goals are to get each item across the river without causing conflict. \
\
3. Put a cat in the bag of seed and throw the bag over the river, since the size of the river is not specified, this could be possible. Then simply put the parrot in the boat and take it across. \
\
4. Yes, the solution meets the goal of getting everything to the other side of the river without causing conflict between the items. \
\
5. The man takes the bad of seed and puts the cat inside it. The man then could throw the bad of seed, also containing the cat, across the river with the seed cushioning the cats landing. The he could simply put the parrot in the boat and ride across. \
\
Socks in the Dark\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 There are 20 socks in a drawer: 5 pairs of black socks, 3 pairs of brown and 2 pairs of white. You select the socks in the dark and can check them only after a selection has been made. What is the smallest number of socks you need to select to guarantee getting the following: a) At least one matching pair b) At least one matching pair of each color. 5 
\f0 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
1. In a dark room and out of twenty socks you need to figure out what is the least amount of socks you can grab while still grabbing a matching pair. Also the least amount of socks you can grab while also having a matching pair of each color. \
\
2.The constraints of the problem are that you can not see what color socks you are grabbing. Also, you want to grab the least amount of socks possible while still getting matching pairs. The sub-goal would be to grab the smallest amount of socks while still getting a matching pair. \
\
3. A possible solution would be to grab only five socks. With grabbing five socks the first time, you would be guaranteed to get at least one matching pair. The possible solution to the second problem could be to grab 8 socks. With grabbing 12 socks you are guaranteed to get a matching pair of each color. \
\
4. Yes each solution meets the goal of getting the needed matching pairs of socks. Yes the solution will work in all cases of grabbing socks. \
\
5. For problem a. you would need to grab  5 socks to get a guaranteed match of one color. For problem b. you would need to grab 12 socks to get a guaranteed match of one color. \
\
Predicting Fingers\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 A little girl counts using the fingers of her left hand as follows: She starts by calling her thumb 1, the first finger 2, middle finder 3, ring finger 4, and little finger 5. Then she reverses direction, calling the ring finger 6, middle finger 7, first finger 8 and thumb 9, after which she calls her first finger 10 and so on. If she continues to count in this manner, on which finger will she stop? a) What if the girl counts from 1 to 10 b) What if the girl counts from 1 to 100 c) What if the girl counts from 1 to 1000\
\
1. The problem is that you need to figure out what finger the little girl will stop on when counting 1-10, 1-100- and 1-1000. The overall goal is to find the finger that she will land on. \
\
2. The constraints are that you do not know what finger the girl will land on when counting to the given sets of numbers. The sub-goals are to find what finger she will land on when counting to 1-10, 1-100, and 1-1000 and finding what finger she lands on between each set of numbers. \
\
3. A possible solution could be to count out on your own fingers what number she would land on when counting through the sets of numbers and finding a pattern of some sort instead of actually counting to 1000. \
\
4. Yes, the solution meets the goals of finding what finger the little girl will land on. Yes, the solution will work in all cases of the problem. \
\
5. When counting 1-10, the little girl will  land on her first finger. When counting 1-100, the little girl will land on her ring finger. When counting 1-1000, the little girl will land on her first finger. A test case that I used was trying to find a pattern in the counting. 
\f0 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\
\
\
\
\
\
}